---
layout: post
title: "HomeWork 1"
date: 2021-09-25
---
## Researches about theory (R)
1_R. Give your best description of the many reaching out of statistics, in its various form, as a branch of math (Probability theory, etc.), as a set of methodologies used in many other disciplines, as an essential tool to dela with any sort of data, make reports and provide governance tools. Discuss whether it can be considered a "science" and what is the "scientific method". What is the role of Statistics in math and science ?

## Applications / Practice (A)
1_A. Create - in both languages C# and VB.NET - a program which does the following simple tasks to get acquainted with the tool:
		- when a button is pressed some text appears in a richtexbox on the startup form
		- when another button is pressed animate one or more colored balls within a rectangle

## (R) Researches about theory 
Statistics is the discipline that concerns the collection, organization, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data.[1][2][3] In applying statistics to a scientific, industrial, or social problem, it is conventional to begin with a statistical population or a statistical model to be studied. Populations can be diverse groups of people or objects such as "all people living in a country" or "every atom composing a crystal". Statistics deals with every aspect of data, including the planning of data collection in terms of the design of surveys and experiments.[4] 

Mathematical statistics is the application of mathematics to statistics. Mathematical techniques used for this include mathematical analysis, linear algebra, stochastic analysis, differential equations, and measure-theoretic probability theory.[5][6]

Mathematical statistics is the application of probability theory, a branch of mathematics, to statistics, as opposed to techniques for collecting statistical data. Specific mathematical techniques which are used for this include mathematical analysis, linear algebra, stochastic analysis, differential equations, and measure theory.[7][8]

#### Methods 

Two main statistical methods are used in data analysis: descriptive statistics, which summarize data from a sample using indexes such as the mean or standard deviation, and inferential statistics, which draw conclusions from data that are subject to random variation (e.g., observational errors, sampling variation).[5] Descriptive statistics are most often concerned with two sets of properties of a distribution (sample or population): central tendency (or location) seeks to characterize the distribution's central or typical value, while dispersion (or variability) characterizes the extent to which members of the distribution depart from its center and each other. Inferences on mathematical statistics are made under the framework of probability theory, which deals with the analysis of random phenomena.

#### What is the role of Statistics in math and science ?

*[1]"Oxford Reference".*
*[2]Romijn, Jan-Willem (2014). "Philosophy of statistics". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.*
*[3]"Cambridge Dictionary".*
*[4]Dodge, Y. (2006) The Oxford Dictionary of Statistical Terms, Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-920613-9*
*[5]Lakshmikantham, ed. by D. Kannan, V. (2002). Handbook of stochastic analysis and applications. New York: M. Dekker. ISBN 0824706609.*
*[6]Schervish, Mark J. (1995). Theory of statistics (Corr. 2nd print. ed.). New York: Springer. ISBN 0387945466.*
*[7]Lakshmikantham, ed. by D. Kannan,... V. (2002). Handbook of stochastic analysis and applications. New York: M. Dekker. ISBN 0824706609.*
*[8]Schervish, Mark J. (1995). Theory of statistics (Corr. 2nd print. ed.). New York: Springer. ISBN 0387945466.*


## (A) Applications / Practice
	
		


	
		
