---
layout: post
title: "HomeWork 4"
date: 2022-10-20
---


## Researches about pure theory (T)

T7. Illustrate the parallels, between the properties of the relative frequency and the axioms for probability<br />
T8. Discuss some concrete examples of Probability measure Space<br />
T9. Illustrate how Measure Theory provides the mathematical foundation for Probability Theory<br /> 
## Researches about applications (A)

A6. Generate a m sequences of n trials distributed according a Binomial with success probability p and represent the following quantities: absolute frequency of success, relative frequency of success, "normalized" relative frequency of success.<br />
A7. In the same chart, add also a vertical histogram representing the distribution of the above 3 types of frequencies on the last trial. <br />
## Researches about theory relevant to applications (TA)
TA5. Give a simple introduction to graphics in the .NET environment. How to create a bitmap and a chart on it.<br />
TA6. Explain in simple terms how to get device coordinates from world coordinates <br />


## <span style="color:red">Researches about theory (T)</span>


## What’s the difference between relative frequency and probability?

Probability is the relative frequency over an infinite number of trials.

For example, the probability of a coin landing on heads is .5, meaning that if you flip the coin an infinite number of times, it will land on heads half the time.

Since doing something an infinite number of times is impossible, relative frequency is often used as an estimate of probability. If you flip a coin 1000 times and get 507 heads, the relative frequency, .507, is a good estimate of the probability.


## Probability measure Space

In probability theory, a probability space or a probability triple ( Ω , F , P ) (\Omega ,{\mathcal {F}},P) is a mathematical construct that provides a formal model of a random process or "experiment". For example, one can define a probability space which models the throwing of a die.

A probability space consists of three elements:[1][2]

  1.  A sample space, Ω \Omega , which is the set of all possible outcomes.
  2.  An event space, which is a set of events F {\mathcal {F}}, an event being a set of outcomes in the sample space.
  3.  A probability function, which assigns each event in the event space a probability, which is a number between 0 and 1.

  In the example of the throw of a standard die, we would take the sample space to be { 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 } {\displaystyle \{1,2,3,4,5,6\}}. For the event space, we could simply use the set of all subsets of the sample space, which would then contain simple events such as { 5 } {\displaystyle \{5\}} ("the die lands on 5"), as well as complex events such as { 2 , 4 , 6 } {\displaystyle \{2,4,6\}} ("the die lands on an even number"). Finally, for the probability function, we would map each event to the number of outcomes in that event divided by 6 — so for example, { 5 } {\displaystyle \{5\}} would be mapped to 1 / 6 1/6, and { 2 , 4 , 6 } {\displaystyle \{2,4,6\}} would be mapped to 3 / 6 = 1 / 2 {\displaystyle 3/6=1/2}. 


 *[1] Loève, Michel. Probability Theory, Vol 1. New York: D. Van Nostrand Company, 1955.
*[2] Stroock, D. W. (1999). Probability theory: an analytic view. Cambridge University Press.