---
layout: post
title: "HomeWork 6"
date: 2022-11-03
---



## Researches about pure theory (T)
-Theory
1)Try to explain in your own words, the concept of population and sampling distribution 
2) show the expected value and variance of the sampling mean and take a look at the same sampling variance



## Researches about applications (A)


Application
1)Take any population and any variable X  and draw m (large) samples of size n (as you like) and represent the following 2 distributions : 
Distribution of the Mean and Distribution of the Variance.
Finally, for each distribution compute mean and variance and compare with the corrisponding values in the population.


## <span style="color:red">Researches about theory (T)</span>


## Population distribution

The population is the whole set of values, or individuals, you are interested in. For example, if you want to know the average height of the residents of India, that is your population, ie, the population of India.

Population characteristic are mean (μ), Standard deviation (σ) , proportion (P) , median,  percentiles etc. The value of a population characteristic is fixed. This characteristics are called population distribution. They are symbolized by Greek characters as they are population parameters.

## Sampling distribution

 In statistics, a sampling distribution or finite-sample distribution is the probability distribution of a given random-sample-based statistic. If an arbitrarily large number of samples, each involving multiple observations (data points), were separately used in order to compute one value of a statistic (such as, for example, the sample mean or sample variance) for each sample, then the sampling distribution is the probability distribution of the values that the statistic takes on. In many contexts, only one sample is observed, but the sampling distribution can be found theoretically.

Sampling distributions are important in statistics because they provide a major simplification en route to statistical inference. More specifically, they allow analytical considerations to be based on the probability distribution of a statistic, rather than on the joint probability distribution of all the individual sample values. 


## Show the expected value and variance of the sampling mean and take a look at the same sampling variance

### Expected value

In probability theory, the expected value (also called expectation, expectancy, mathematical expectation, mean, average, or first moment) is a generalization of the weighted average. Informally, the expected value is the arithmetic mean of a large number of independently selected outcomes of a random variable.

The expected value of a random variable with a finite number of outcomes is a weighted average of all possible outcomes. In the case of a continuum of possible outcomes, the expectation is defined by integration. In the axiomatic foundation for probability provided by measure theory, the expectation is given by Lebesgue integration.

The expected value of a random variable X is often denoted by *E(X)*


### Mean

The mean of the sampling distribution of the mean is the mean of the population from which the scores were sampled. Therefore, if a population has a mean μ, then the mean of the sampling distribution of the mean is also μ. The symbol μM is used to refer to the mean of the sampling distribution of the mean. Therefore, the formula for the mean of the sampling distribution of the mean can be written as:

μM = μ

### Variance

The variance of the sampling distribution of the mean is computed as follows:

That is, the variance of the sampling distribution of the mean is the population variance divided by N, the sample size (the number of scores used to compute a mean). Thus, the larger the sample size, the smaller the variance of the sampling distribution of the mean.
## Researches about theory relevant to applications (TA)